NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
1.2.2 RiskTolerance
While the AI RMF can be used to prioritize risk, it does not prescribe risk tolerance. Risk
tolerance refers to the organization’s or AI actor’s (see Appendix A) readiness to bear the
risk in order to achieve its objectives. Risk tolerance can be influenced by legal or regula-
tory requirements (Adapted from: ISO GUIDE 73). Risk tolerance and the level of risk that
isacceptabletoorganizationsorsocietyarehighlycontextualandapplicationanduse-case
specific. Risk tolerances can be influenced by policies and norms established by AI sys-
tem owners, organizations, industries, communities, or policy makers. Risk tolerances are
likely to change over time as AI systems, policies, and norms evolve. Different organiza-
tions may have varied risk tolerances due to their particular organizational priorities and
resourceconsiderations.
Emerging knowledge and methods to better inform harm/cost-benefit tradeoffs will con-
tinuetobedevelopedanddebatedbybusinesses,governments,academia,andcivilsociety.
TotheextentthatchallengesforspecifyingAIrisktolerancesremainunresolved,theremay
becontextswhereariskmanagementframeworkisnotyetreadilyapplicableformitigating
negativeAIrisks.
The Framework is intended to be flexible and to augment existing risk practices
which should align with applicable laws, regulations, and norms. Organizations
should follow existing regulations and guidelines for risk criteria, tolerance, and
response established by organizational, domain, discipline, sector, or professional
requirements. Somesectorsorindustriesmayhaveestablisheddefinitionsofharmor
established documentation, reporting, and disclosure requirements. Within sectors,
risk management may depend on existing guidelines for specific applications and
use case settings. Where established guidelines do not exist, organizations should
definereasonablerisktolerance. Oncetoleranceisdefined,thisAIRMFcanbeused
tomanagerisksandtodocumentriskmanagementprocesses.
1.2.3 RiskPrioritization
Attemptingtoeliminatenegativeriskentirelycanbecounterproductiveinpracticebecause
not all incidents and failures can be eliminated. Unrealistic expectations about risk may
lead organizations to allocate resources in a manner that makes risk triage inefficient or
impractical or wastes scarce resources. A risk management culture can help organizations
recognize that not all AI risks are the same, and resources can be allocated purposefully.
Actionable risk management efforts lay out clear guidelines for assessing trustworthiness
of each AI system an organization develops or deploys. Policies and resources should be
prioritizedbasedontheassessedrisklevelandpotentialimpactofanAIsystem. Theextent
to which an AI system may be customized or tailored to the specific context of use by the
AIdeployercanbeacontributingfactor.
Page7