NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
This complexity and varying levels of visibility can introduce uncertainty into risk man-
agement practices. Anticipating, assessing, and otherwise addressing potential sources of
negativeriskcanmitigatethisuncertaintyandenhancetheintegrityofthedecisionprocess.
The information gathered while carrying out the MAP function enables negative risk pre-
vention and informs decisions for processes such as model management, as well as an
initial decision about appropriateness or the need for an AI solution. Outcomes in the
MAP function are the basis for the MEASURE and MANAGE functions. Without contex-
tual knowledge, and awareness of risks within the identified contexts, risk management is
difficult to perform. The MAP function is intended to enhance an organization’s ability to
identifyrisksandbroadercontributingfactors.
Implementation of this function is enhanced by incorporating perspectives from a diverse
internal team and engagement with those external to the team that developed or deployed
the AI system. Engagement with external collaborators, end users, potentially impacted
communities, and others may vary based on the risk level of a particular AI system, the
makeup of the internal team, and organizational policies. Gathering such broad perspec-
tives can help organizations proactively prevent negative risks and develop more trustwor-
thyAIsystemsby:
• improvingtheircapacityforunderstandingcontexts;
• checkingtheirassumptionsaboutcontextofuse;
• enabling recognition of when systems are not functional within or out of their in-
tendedcontext;
• identifyingpositiveandbeneficialusesoftheirexistingAIsystems;
• improvingunderstandingoflimitationsinAIandMLprocesses;
• identifyingconstraintsinreal-worldapplicationsthatmayleadtonegativeimpacts;
• identifying known and foreseeable negative impacts related to intended use of AI
systems;and
• anticipatingrisksoftheuseofAIsystemsbeyondintendeduse.
After completing the MAP function, Framework users should have sufficient contextual
knowledge about AI system impacts to inform an initial go/no-go decision about whether
todesign,develop,ordeployanAIsystem. Ifadecisionismadetoproceed,organizations
should utilize the MEASURE and MANAGE functions along with policies and procedures
putintoplaceinthe GOVERN functiontoassistinAIriskmanagementefforts. Itisincum-
bent on Framework users to continue applying the MAP function to AI systems as context,
capabilities,risks,benefits,andpotentialimpactsevolveovertime.
Practices related to mapping AI risks are described in the NIST AI RMF Playbook. Table
2liststhe MAP function’scategoriesandsubcategories.
Page25