NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Organizations need to establish and maintain the appropriate accountability mechanisms,
roles and responsibilities, culture, and incentive structures for risk management to be ef-
fective. UseoftheAIRMFalonewillnotleadtothesechangesorprovidetheappropriate
incentives. Effective risk management is realized through organizational commitment at
senior levels and may require cultural change within an organization or industry. In addi-
tion,smalltomedium-sizedorganizationsmanagingAIrisksorimplementingtheAIRMF
may face different challenges than large organizations, depending on their capabilities and
resources.
2. Audience
Identifying and managing AI risks and potential impacts – both positive and negative – re-
quires a broad set of perspectives and actors across the AI lifecycle. Ideally, AI actors will
represent a diversity of experience, expertise, and backgrounds and comprise demograph-
ically and disciplinarily diverse teams. The AI RMF is intended to be used by AI actors
acrosstheAIlifecycleanddimensions.
The OECD has developed a framework for classifying AI lifecycle activities according to
fivekeysocio-technicaldimensions,eachwithpropertiesrelevantforAIpolicyandgover-
nance,includingriskmanagement[OECD(2022)OECDFrameworkfortheClassification
of AI systems — OECD Digital Economy Papers]. Figure 2 shows these dimensions,
slightly modified by NIST for purposes of this framework. The NIST modification high-
lights the importance of test, evaluation, verification, and validation (TEVV) processes
throughoutanAIlifecycleandgeneralizestheoperationalcontextofanAIsystem.
AI dimensions displayed in Figure 2 are the Application Context, Data and Input, AI
Model, and Task and Output. AI actors involved in these dimensions who perform or
managethedesign,development,deployment,evaluation,anduseofAIsystemsanddrive
AIriskmanagementeffortsaretheprimaryAIRMFaudience.
RepresentativeAIactorsacrossthelifecycledimensionsarelistedinFigure3anddescribed
in detail in Appendix A. Within the AI RMF, all AI actors work together to manage risks
and achieve the goals of trustworthy and responsible AI. AI actors with TEVV-specific
expertiseareintegratedthroughouttheAIlifecycleandareespeciallylikelytobenefitfrom
theFramework. Performedregularly,TEVVtaskscanprovideinsightsrelativetotechnical,
societal,legal,andethicalstandardsornorms,andcanassistwithanticipatingimpactsand
assessing and tracking emergent risks. As a regular process within an AI lifecycle, TEVV
allowsforbothmid-courseremediationandpost-hocriskmanagement.
The People & Planet dimension at the center of Figure 2 represents human rights and the
broader well-being of society and the planet. The AI actors in this dimension comprise
a separate AI RMF audience who informs the primary audience. These AI actors may in-
cludetradeassociations,standardsdevelopingorganizations,researchers,advocacygroups,
Page9