NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
andvalidationtasksaredistinctfromthosewhoperformtestandevaluationactions. Tasks
can be incorporated into a phase as early as design, where tests are planned in accordance
withthedesignrequirement.
• TEVV tasks for design, planning, and data may center on internal and external vali-
dation of assumptions for system design, data collection, and measurements relative
totheintendedcontextofdeploymentorapplication.
• TEVV tasks for development (i.e., model building) include model validation and
assessment.
• TEVVtasksfordeploymentincludesystemvalidationandintegrationinproduction,
with testing, and recalibration for systems and process integration, user experience,
andcompliancewithexistinglegal,regulatory,andethicalspecifications.
• TEVVtasksforoperationsinvolveongoingmonitoringforperiodicupdates,testing,
and subject matter expert (SME) recalibration of models, the tracking of incidents
or errors reported and their management, the detection of emergent properties and
relatedimpacts,andprocessesforredressandresponse.
Human Factors tasks and activities are found throughout the dimensions of the AI life-
cycle. They include human-centered design practices and methodologies, promoting the
active involvement of end users and other interested parties and relevant AI actors, incor-
porating context-specific norms and values in system design, evaluating and adapting end
userexperiences,andbroadintegrationofhumansandhumandynamicsinallphasesofthe
AIlifecycle. Humanfactorsprofessionalsprovidemultidisciplinaryskillsandperspectives
to understand context of use, inform interdisciplinary and demographic diversity, engage
in consultative processes, design and evaluate user experience, perform human-centered
evaluationandtesting,andinformimpactassessments.
Domain Expert tasks involve input from multidisciplinary practitioners or scholars who
provide knowledge or expertise in – and about – an industry sector, economic sector, con-
text, or application area where an AI system is being used. AI actors who are domain
experts can provide essential guidance for AI system design and development, and inter-
pretoutputsinsupportofworkperformedbyTEVVandAIimpactassessmentteams.
AIImpactAssessmenttasksincludeassessingandevaluatingrequirementsforAIsystem
accountability, combating harmful bias, examining impacts of AI systems, product safety,
liability, and security, among others. AI actors such as impact assessors and evaluators
providetechnical,humanfactor,socio-cultural,andlegalexpertise.
ProcurementtasksareconductedbyAIactorswithfinancial,legal,orpolicymanagement
authority for acquisition of AI models, products, or services from a third-party developer,
vendor,orcontractor.
Governance and Oversight tasks are assumed by AI actors with management, fiduciary,
and legal authority and responsibility for the organization in which an AI system is de-
Page36