NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Table3: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe MEASURE function. (Continued)
Categories Subcategories
MEASURE 3.3: Feedback processes for end users and impacted
communitiestoreportproblemsandappealsystemoutcomesare
establishedandintegratedintoAIsystemevaluationmetrics.
MEASURE 4: MEASURE4.1: MeasurementapproachesforidentifyingAIrisks
Feedbackabout are connected to deployment context(s) and informed through
efficacyof consultation with domain experts and other end users. Ap-
measurementis proachesaredocumented.
gatheredand
MEASURE 4.2: Measurement results regarding AI system trust-
assessed.
worthiness in deployment context(s) and across the AI lifecycle
are informed by input from domain experts and relevant AI ac-
tors to validate whether the system is performing consistently as
intended. Resultsaredocumented.
MEASURE 4.3: Measurable performance improvements or de-
clines based on consultations with relevant AI actors, in-
cluding affected communities, and field data about context-
relevant risks and trustworthiness characteristics are identified
anddocumented.
5.4 Manage
The MANAGE function entails allocating risk resources to mapped and measured risks on
aregularbasisandasdefinedbythe GOVERN function. Risktreatmentcomprisesplansto
respondto,recoverfrom,andcommunicateaboutincidentsorevents.
ContextualinformationgleanedfromexpertconsultationandinputfromrelevantAIactors
– established in GOVERN and carried out in MAP – is utilized in this function to decrease
thelikelihoodofsystemfailuresandnegativeimpacts. Systematicdocumentationpractices
established in GOVERN and utilized in MAP and MEASURE bolster AI risk management
effortsandincreasetransparencyandaccountability. Processesforassessingemergentrisks
areinplace,alongwithmechanismsforcontinualimprovement.
After completing the MANAGE function, plans for prioritizing risk and regular monitoring
and improvement will be in place. Framework users will have enhanced capacity to man-
age the risks of deployed AI systems and to allocate risk management resources based on
assessed and prioritized risks. It is incumbent on Framework users to continue to apply
the MANAGE function to deployed AI systems as methods, contexts, risks, and needs or
expectationsfromrelevantAIactorsevolveovertime.
Page31