NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Appendix A:
Descriptions of AI Actor Tasks from Figures 2 and 3
AI Design tasks are performed during the Application Context and Data and Input phases
of the AI lifecycle in Figure 2. AI Design actors create the concept and objectives of AI
systems and are responsible for the planning, design, and data collection and processing
tasksoftheAIsystemsothattheAIsystemislawfulandfit-for-purpose. Tasksincludear-
ticulating and documenting the system’s concept and objectives, underlying assumptions,
context, and requirements; gathering and cleaning data; and documenting the metadata
and characteristics of the dataset. AI actors in this category include data scientists, do-
main experts, socio-cultural analysts, experts in the field of diversity, equity, inclusion,
and accessibility, members of impacted communities, human factors experts (e.g., UX/UI
design), governance experts, data engineers, data providers, system funders, product man-
agers,third-partyentities,evaluators,andlegalandprivacygovernance.
AIDevelopmenttasksareperformedduringtheAIModelphaseofthelifecycleinFigure
2. AIDevelopmentactorsprovidetheinitialinfrastructureofAIsystemsandareresponsi-
ble for model building and interpretation tasks, which involve the creation, selection, cali-
bration, training, and/or testing of models or algorithms. AI actors in this category include
machinelearning experts,data scientists, developers,third-party entities,legal andprivacy
governanceexperts,andexpertsinthesocio-culturalandcontextualfactorsassociatedwith
thedeploymentsetting.
AI Deployment tasks are performed during the Task and Output phase of the lifecycle in
Figure 2. AI Deployment actors are responsible for contextual decisions relating to how
the AI system is used to assure deployment of the system into production. Related tasks
include piloting the system, checking compatibility with legacy systems, ensuring regu-
latory compliance, managing organizational change, and evaluating user experience. AI
actors in this category include system integrators, software developers, end users, oper-
ators and practitioners, evaluators, and domain experts with expertise in human factors,
socio-culturalanalysis,andgovernance.
Operation and Monitoring tasks are performed in the Application Context/Operate and
MonitorphaseofthelifecycleinFigure2. ThesetasksarecarriedoutbyAIactorswhoare
responsibleforoperatingtheAIsystemandworkingwithotherstoregularlyassesssystem
outputandimpacts. AIactorsinthiscategoryincludesystemoperators,domainexperts,AI
designers,userswhointerpretorincorporatetheoutputofAIsystems,productdevelopers,
evaluators and auditors, compliance experts, organizational management, and members of
theresearchcommunity.
Test, Evaluation, Verification, and Validation (TEVV) tasks are performed throughout
the AI lifecycle. They are carried out by AI actors who examine the AI system or its
components, or detect and remediate problems. Ideally, AI actors carrying out verification
Page35