NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Table1: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe GOVERN function. (Continued)
Categories Subcategories
GOVERN 1.5: Ongoing monitoring and periodic review of the
risk management process and its outcomes are planned and or-
ganizational roles and responsibilities clearly defined, including
determiningthefrequencyofperiodicreview.
GOVERN 1.6: Mechanisms are in place to inventory AI systems
andareresourcedaccordingtoorganizationalriskpriorities.
GOVERN 1.7: Processes and procedures are in place for decom-
missioning and phasing out AI systems safely and in a man-
ner that does not increase risks or decrease the organization’s
trustworthiness.
GOVERN 2: GOVERN 2.1: Roles and responsibilities and lines of communi-
Accountability cationrelatedtomapping,measuring,andmanagingAIrisksare
structuresarein documented and are clear to individuals and teams throughout
placesothatthe theorganization.
appropriateteams
GOVERN 2.2: The organization’s personnel and partners receive
andindividualsare
AI riskmanagement training to enablethem to perform theirdu-
empowered,
ties and responsibilities consistent with related policies, proce-
responsible,and
dures,andagreements.
trainedformapping,
GOVERN 2.3: Executive leadership of the organization takes re-
measuring,and
sponsibility for decisions about risks associated with AI system
managingAIrisks.
developmentanddeployment.
GOVERN 3: GOVERN 3.1: Decision-making related to mapping, measuring,
Workforcediversity, and managing AI risks throughout the lifecycle is informed by a
equity,inclusion, diverse team (e.g., diversity of demographics, disciplines, expe-
andaccessibility rience,expertise,andbackgrounds).
processesare
GOVERN 3.2: Policies and procedures are in place to define and
prioritizedinthe
differentiate roles and responsibilities for human-AI configura-
mapping,
tionsandoversightofAIsystems.
measuring,and
managingofAI
risksthroughoutthe
lifecycle.
GOVERN 4: GOVERN 4.1: Organizational policies and practices are in place
Organizational tofosteracriticalthinkingandsafety-firstmindsetinthedesign,
teamsarecommitted development, deployment, and uses of AI systems to minimize
toaculture potentialnegativeimpacts.
Continuedonnextpage
Page23