NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
GOVERN is a cross-cutting function that is infused throughout AI risk management and
enablestheotherfunctionsoftheprocess. Aspectsof GOVERN,especiallythoserelatedto
compliance or evaluation, should be integrated into each of the other functions. Attention
to governance is a continual and intrinsic requirement for effective AI risk management
overanAIsystem’slifespanandtheorganization’shierarchy.
Strong governance can drive and enhance internal practices and norms to facilitate orga-
nizational risk culture. Governing authorities can determine the overarching policies that
direct an organization’s mission, goals, values, culture, and risk tolerance. Senior leader-
ship sets the tone for risk management within an organization, and with it, organizational
culture. Management aligns the technical aspects of AI risk management to policies and
operations. Documentation can enhance transparency, improve human review processes,
andbolsteraccountabilityinAIsystemteams.
After putting in place the structures, systems, processes, and teams described in the GOV-
ERN function, organizations should benefit from a purpose-driven culture focused on risk
understanding and management. It is incumbent on Framework users to continue to ex-
ecute the GOVERN function as knowledge, cultures, and needs or expectations from AI
actorsevolveovertime.
PracticesrelatedtogoverningAIrisksaredescribedintheNISTAIRMFPlaybook. Table
1liststhe GOVERN function’scategoriesandsubcategories.
Table1: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe GOVERN function.
Categories Subcategories
GOVERN 1: GOVERN 1.1: Legal and regulatory requirements involving AI
Policies,processes, areunderstood,managed,anddocumented.
procedures,and
GOVERN 1.2: The characteristics of trustworthy AI are inte-
practicesacrossthe
grated into organizational policies, processes, procedures, and
organizationrelated
practices.
tothemapping,
GOVERN 1.3: Processes, procedures, and practices are in place
measuring,and
todeterminetheneededlevelofriskmanagementactivitiesbased
managingofAI
ontheorganization’srisktolerance.
risksareinplace,
transparent,and GOVERN1.4: Theriskmanagementprocessanditsoutcomesare
implemented established through transparent policies, procedures, and other
effectively. controlsbasedonorganizationalriskpriorities.
Continuedonnextpage
Page22