NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Table2: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe MAP function. (Continued)
Categories Subcategories
MAP 2.3: ScientificintegrityandTEVVconsiderationsareiden-
tified and documented, including those related to experimental
design, data collection and selection (e.g., availability, repre-
sentativeness, suitability), system trustworthiness, and construct
validation.
MAP 3: AI MAP 3.1: Potential benefits of intended AI system functionality
capabilities,targeted andperformanceareexaminedanddocumented.
usage,goals,and
MAP 3.2: Potential costs, including non-monetary costs, which
expectedbenefits
resultfromexpectedorrealizedAIerrorsorsystemfunctionality
andcostscompared
and trustworthiness – as connected to organizational risk toler-
withappropriate
ance–areexaminedanddocumented.
benchmarksare
MAP 3.3: Targeted application scope is specified and docu-
understood.
mentedbasedonthesystem’scapability,establishedcontext,and
AIsystemcategorization.
MAP 3.4: Processes for operator and practitioner proficiency
with AI system performance and trustworthiness – and relevant
technicalstandardsandcertifications–aredefined,assessed,and
documented.
MAP 3.5: Processes for human oversight are defined, assessed,
anddocumentedinaccordancewithorganizationalpoliciesfrom
the GOVERN function.
MAP 4: Risksand MAP4.1: ApproachesformappingAItechnologyandlegalrisks
benefitsaremapped of its components – including the use of third-party data or soft-
forallcomponents ware–areinplace,followed,anddocumented,asarerisksofin-
oftheAIsystem fringementofathirdparty’sintellectualpropertyorotherrights.
includingthird-party
MAP 4.2: Internal risk controls for components of the AI sys-
softwareanddata.
tem, including third-party AI technologies, are identified and
documented.
MAP 5: Impactsto MAP 5.1: Likelihood and magnitude of each identified impact
individuals,groups, (both potentially beneficial and harmful) based on expected use,
communities, past uses of AI systems in similar contexts, public incident re-
organizations,and ports, feedback from those external to the team that developed
societyare or deployed the AI system, or other data are identified and
characterized. documented.
Continuedonnextpage
Page27