NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Appendix D:
Attributes of the AI RMF
NIST described several key attributes of the AI RMF when work on the Framework first
began. These attributes have remained intact and were used to guide the AI RMF’s devel-
opment. Theyareprovidedhereasareference.
TheAIRMFstrivesto:
1. Berisk-based,resource-efficient,pro-innovation,andvoluntary.
2. Be consensus-driven and developed and regularly updated through an open, trans-
parent process. All stakeholders should have the opportunity to contribute to the AI
RMF’sdevelopment.
3. Use clear and plain language that is understandable by a broad audience, including
senior executives, government officials, non-governmental organization leadership,
and those who are not AI professionals – while still of sufficient technical depth to
be useful to practitioners. The AI RMF should allow for communication of AI risks
across an organization, between organizations, with customers, and to the public at
large.
4. Provide common language and understanding to manage AI risks. The AI RMF
should offer taxonomy, terminology, definitions, metrics, and characterizations for
AIrisk.
5. Be easily usable and fit well with other aspects of risk management. Use of the
Framework should be intuitive and readily adaptable as part of an organization’s
broader risk management strategy and processes. It should be consistent or aligned
withotherapproachestomanagingAIrisks.
6. Be useful to a wide range of perspectives, sectors, and technology domains. The AI
RMF should be universally applicable to any AI technology and to context-specific
usecases.
7. Beoutcome-focusedandnon-prescriptive. TheFrameworkshouldprovidea catalog
ofoutcomesandapproachesratherthanprescribeone-size-fits-allrequirements.
8. Takeadvantageofandfostergreaterawarenessofexistingstandards,guidelines,best
practices, methodologies, and tools for managing AI risks – as well as illustrate the
needforadditional,improvedresources.
9. Be law- and regulation-agnostic. The Framework should support organizations’
abilities to operate under applicable domestic and international legal or regulatory
regimes.
10. Bealivingdocument. TheAIRMFshouldbereadilyupdatedastechnology,under-
standing, and approaches to AI trustworthiness and uses of AI change and as stake-
holders learn from implementing AI risk management generally and this framework
inparticular.
Page42