NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Table4: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe MANAGE function. (Continued)
Categories Subcategories
MANAGE 4: Risk MANAGE 4.1: Post-deployment AI system monitoring plans
treatments, are implemented, including mechanisms for capturing and eval-
includingresponse uating input from users and other relevant AI actors, appeal
andrecovery,and andoverride,decommissioning,incidentresponse,recovery,and
communication changemanagement.
plansforthe
MANAGE 4.2: Measurableactivitiesforcontinualimprovements
identifiedand
areintegratedintoAIsystemupdatesandincluderegularengage-
measuredAIrisks
mentwithinterestedparties,includingrelevantAIactors.
aredocumentedand
MANAGE4.3: Incidentsanderrorsarecommunicatedtorelevant
monitoredregularly.
AI actors, including affected communities. Processes for track-
ing, responding to, and recovering from incidents and errors are
followedanddocumented.
6. AI RMF Profiles
AI RMF use-case profiles are implementations of the AI RMF functions, categories, and
subcategoriesforaspecificsettingorapplicationbasedontherequirements,risktolerance,
and resources of the Framework user: for example, an AI RMF hiring profile or an AI
RMF fair housing profile. Profiles may illustrate and offer insights into how risk can be
managed at various stages of the AI lifecycle or in specific sector, technology, or end-use
applications. AIRMFprofilesassistorganizationsindecidinghowtheymightbestmanage
AI risk that is well-aligned with their goals, considers legal/regulatory requirements and
bestpractices,andreflectsriskmanagementpriorities.
AI RMF temporal profiles are descriptions of either the current state or the desired, target
stateofspecificAIriskmanagementactivitieswithinagivensector,industry,organization,
or application context. An AI RMF Current Profile indicates how AI is currently being
managed and the related risks in terms of current outcomes. A Target Profile indicates the
outcomesneededtoachievethedesiredortargetAIriskmanagementgoals.
Comparing Current and Target Profiles likely reveals gaps to be addressed to meet AI risk
management objectives. Action plans can be developed to address these gaps to fulfill
outcomes in a given category or subcategory. Prioritization of gap mitigation is driven by
the user’s needs and risk management processes. This risk-based approach also enables
Framework users to compare their approaches with other approaches and to gauge the
resources needed (e.g., staffing, funding) to achieve AI risk management goals in a cost-
effective,prioritizedmanner.
Page33