NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Table1: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe GOVERN function. (Continued)
Categories Subcategories
thatconsidersand GOVERN 4.2: Organizational teams document the risks and po-
communicatesAI tentialimpactsoftheAItechnologytheydesign,develop,deploy,
risk. evaluate,anduse,andtheycommunicateabouttheimpactsmore
broadly.
GOVERN 4.3: Organizational practices are in place to enable AI
testing,identificationofincidents,andinformationsharing.
GOVERN 5: GOVERN 5.1: Organizational policies and practices are in place
Processesarein to collect, consider, prioritize, and integrate feedback from those
placeforrobust external to the team that developed or deployed the AI system
engagementwith regarding the potential individual and societal impacts related to
relevantAIactors. AIrisks.
GOVERN 5.2: Mechanisms are established to enable the team
that developed or deployed AI systems to regularly incorporate
adjudicated feedback from relevant AI actors into system design
andimplementation.
GOVERN 6: Policies GOVERN 6.1: Policies and procedures are in place that address
andproceduresare AIrisksassociatedwiththird-partyentities,includingrisksofin-
inplacetoaddress fringementofathird-party’sintellectualpropertyorotherrights.
AIrisksandbenefits
GOVERN 6.2: Contingency processes are in place to handle
arisingfrom
failures or incidents in third-party data or AI systems deemed to
third-partysoftware
behigh-risk.
anddataandother
supplychainissues.
5.2 Map
The MAP function establishes the context to frame risks related to an AI system. The AI
lifecycle consists of many interdependent activities involving a diverse set of actors (See
Figure 3). In practice, AI actors in charge of one part of the process often do not have full
visibility or control over other parts and their associated contexts. The interdependencies
between these activities, and among the relevant AI actors, can make it difficult to reliably
anticipateimpactsofAIsystems. Forexample,earlydecisionsinidentifyingpurposesand
objectives of an AI system can alter its behavior and capabilities, and the dynamics of de-
ployment setting (such as end users or impacted individuals) can shape the impacts of AI
system decisions. As a result, the best intentions within one dimension of the AI lifecycle
can be undermined via interactions with decisions and conditions in other, later activities.
Page24