NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Table2: Categoriesandsubcategoriesforthe MAP function. (Continued)
Categories Subcategories
MAP 5.2: Practices and personnel for supporting regular en-
gagementwithrelevantAIactorsandintegratingfeedbackabout
positive, negative, and unanticipated impacts are in place and
documented.
5.3 Measure
The MEASURE function employs quantitative, qualitative, or mixed-method tools, tech-
niques, and methodologies to analyze, assess, benchmark, and monitor AI risk and related
impacts. ItusesknowledgerelevanttoAIrisksidentifiedinthe MAP functionandinforms
the MANAGE function. AI systems should be tested before their deployment and regu-
larly while in operation. AI risk measurements include documenting aspects of systems’
functionalityandtrustworthiness.
MeasuringAIrisksincludestrackingmetricsfortrustworthycharacteristics,socialimpact,
and human-AI configurations. Processes developed or adopted in the MEASURE function
should include rigorous software testing and performance assessment methodologies with
associated measures of uncertainty, comparisons to performance benchmarks, and formal-
izedreportinganddocumentationofresults. Processesforindependentreviewcanimprove
the effectiveness of testing and can mitigate internal biases and potential conflicts of inter-
est.
Wheretradeoffsamongthetrustworthycharacteristicsarise,measurementprovidesatrace-
able basis to inform management decisions. Options may include recalibration, impact
mitigation,orremovalofthesystemfromdesign,development,production,oruse,aswell
asarangeofcompensating,detective,deterrent,directive,andrecoverycontrols.
AftercompletingtheMEASUREfunction,objective,repeatable,orscalabletest,evaluation,
verification,andvalidation(TEVV)processesincludingmetrics,methods,andmethodolo-
gies are in place, followed, and documented. Metrics and measurement methodologies
shouldadheretoscientific,legal,andethicalnormsandbecarriedoutinanopenandtrans-
parent process. New types of measurement, qualitative and quantitative, may need to be
developed. The degree to which each measurement type provides unique and meaningful
information to the assessment of AI risks should be considered. Framework users will en-
hancetheircapacitytocomprehensivelyevaluatesystemtrustworthiness,identifyandtrack
existingandemergentrisks,andverifyefficacyofthemetrics. Measurementoutcomeswill
be utilized in the MANAGE function to assist risk monitoring and response efforts. It is in-
cumbent on Framework users to continue applying the MEASURE function to AI systems
asknowledge,methodologies,risks,andimpactsevolveovertime.
Page28