NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
deployed, or evaluated – which can create opportunities to surface problems and identify
existingandemergentrisks.
An online companion resource to the AI RMF, the NIST AI RMF Playbook, is available
to help organizations navigate the AI RMF and achieve its outcomes through suggested
tactical actions they can apply within their own contexts. Like the AI RMF, the Playbook
is voluntary and organizations can utilize the suggestions according to their needs and
interests. Playbook users can create tailored guidance selected from suggested material
fortheirownuseandcontributetheirsuggestionsforsharingwiththebroadercommunity.
AlongwiththeAIRMF,thePlaybookispartoftheNISTTrustworthyandResponsibleAI
ResourceCenter.
Framework users may apply these functions as best suits their needs for managing
AI risks based on their resources and capabilities. Some organizations may choose
to select from among the categories and subcategories; others may choose and have
thecapacitytoapplyallcategoriesandsubcategories. Assumingagovernancestruc-
ture is in place, functions may be performed in any order across the AI lifecycle as
deemed to add value by a user of the framework. After instituting the outcomes in
GOVERN, most users of the AI RMF would start with the MAP function and con-
tinue to MEASURE or MANAGE. However users integrate the functions, the process
should be iterative, with cross-referencing between functions as necessary. Simi-
larly, there are categories and subcategories with elements that apply to multiple
functions,orthatlogicallyshouldtakeplacebeforecertainsubcategorydecisions.
5.1 Govern
The GOVERN function:
• cultivatesandimplementsacultureofriskmanagementwithinorganizationsdesign-
ing,developing,deploying,evaluating,oracquiringAIsystems;
• outlines processes, documents, and organizational schemes that anticipate, identify,
andmanagetherisksasystemcanpose,includingtousersandothersacrosssociety
–andprocedurestoachievethoseoutcomes;
• incorporatesprocessestoassesspotentialimpacts;
• provides a structure by which AI risk management functions can align with organi-
zationalprinciples,policies,andstrategicpriorities;
• connects technical aspects of AI system design and development to organizational
values and principles, and enables organizational practices and competencies for the
individuals involved in acquiring, training, deploying, and monitoring such systems;
and
• addresses full product lifecycle and associated processes, including legal and other
issuesconcerninguseofthird-partysoftwareorhardwaresystemsanddata.
Page21