NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
4. Presenting AI system information to humans is complex. Humans perceive and
derivemeaningfromAIsystemoutputandexplanationsindifferentways,reflecting
differentindividualpreferences,traits,andskills.
The GOVERN function provides organizations with the opportunity to clarify and define
the roles and responsibilities for the humans in the Human-AI team configurations and
those who are overseeing the AI system performance. The GOVERN function also creates
mechanisms for organizations to make their decision-making processes more explicit, to
helpcountersystemicbiases.
The MAP function suggests opportunities to define and document processes for operator
andpractitionerproficiencywithAIsystemperformanceandtrustworthinessconcepts,and
to define relevant technical standards and certifications. Implementing MAP function cat-
egories and subcategories may help organizations improve their internal competency for
analyzingcontext,identifyingproceduralandsystemlimitations,exploringandexamining
impacts of AI-based systems in the real world, and evaluating decision-making processes
throughouttheAIlifecycle.
The GOVERN and MAP functionsdescribetheimportanceofinterdisciplinarityanddemo-
graphicallydiverseteamsandutilizingfeedbackfrompotentiallyimpactedindividualsand
communities. AI actors called out in the AI RMF who perform human factors tasks and
activities can assist technical teams by anchoring in design and development practices to
userintentionsandrepresentativesofthebroaderAIcommunity,andsocietalvalues. These
actors further help to incorporate context-specific norms and values in system design and
evaluateenduserexperiences–inconjunctionwithAIsystems.
AI risk management approaches for human-AI configurations will be augmented by on-
going research and evaluation. For example, the degree to which humans are empowered
andincentivizedtochallengeAIsystemoutputrequiresfurtherstudies. Dataaboutthefre-
quency and rationale with which humans overrule AI system output in deployed systems
maybeusefultocollectandanalyze.
Page41