NISTAI100-1 AIRMF1.0
Appendix C:
AI Risk Management and Human-AI Interaction
Organizations that design, develop, or deploy AI systems for use in operational settings
may enhance their AI risk management by understanding current limitations of human-
AI interaction. The AI RMF provides opportunities to clearly define and differentiate the
various human roles and responsibilities when using, interacting with, or managing AI
systems.
Manyofthedata-drivenapproachesthatAIsystemsrelyonattempttoconvertorrepresent
individual and social observational and decision-making practices into measurable quanti-
ties. Representing complex human phenomena with mathematical models can come at the
cost of removing necessary context. This loss of context may in turn make it difficult to
understandindividualandsocietalimpactsthatarekeytoAIriskmanagementefforts.
Issuesthatmeritfurtherconsiderationandresearchinclude:
1. HumanrolesandresponsibilitiesindecisionmakingandoverseeingAIsystems
need to be clearly defined and differentiated. Human-AI configurations can span
from fully autonomous to fully manual. AI systems can autonomously make deci-
sions, defer decision making to a human expert, or be used by a human decision
maker as an additional opinion. Some AI systems may not require human oversight,
such as models used to improve video compression. Other systems may specifically
requirehumanoversight.
2. Decisionsthatgointothedesign,development,deployment,evaluation,anduse
of AI systems reflect systemic and human cognitive biases. AI actors bring their
cognitive biases, both individual and group, into the process. Biases can stem from
end-user decision-making tasks and be introduced across the AI lifecycle via human
assumptions, expectations, and decisions during design and modeling tasks. These
biases, which are not necessarily always harmful, may be exacerbated by AI system
opacity and the resulting lack of transparency. Systemic biases at the organizational
level can influence how teams are structured and who controls the decision-making
processes throughout the AI lifecycle. These biases can also influence downstream
decisionsbyendusers,decisionmakers,andpolicymakersandmayleadtonegative
impacts.
3. Human-AI interaction results vary. Under certain conditions – for example, in
perceptual-based judgment tasks – the AI part of the human-AI interaction can am-
plify human biases, leading to more biased decisions than the AI or human alone.
When these variations are judiciously taken into account in organizing human-AI
teams, however, they can result in complementarity and improved overall perfor-
mance.
Page40